docs(agentic-orchestration): add agent definitions and instances concept page (#9402)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/reference/glossary.md

Reviewer: @afgambin During the UX Feedback Session, it was pointed out to me that loop iteration is not covered in the glossary yet. Could you please add it?

Author: Added!

- [Admin overview](/components/admin/admin-introduction.md)

### Agent definition

> A first-class, queryable resource that describes an [AI agent](#ai-agent) deployed to Camunda. Camunda creates one agent definition per agent element (ad-hoc sub-process, AI Agent Task, or external agent) when a process containing agents is deployed, analogous to how a DMN deployment creates decision definitions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A first-class, queryable resource that describes an [AI agent](#ai-agent) deployed to Camunda. Camunda creates one agent definition per agent element (Ai Agent sub-process, AI Agent Task, or external agent) when a process containing agents is deployed, analogous to how a DRD deployment creates decision definitions.
```

> A first-class, queryable resource that describes an [AI agent](#ai-agent) deployed to Camunda. Camunda creates one agent definition per agent element (AI Agent sub-process, AI Agent Task, or external agent) when a process containing agents is deployed, analogous to how a [DRD](#drd-decision-requirements-diagram) deployment creates decision definitions.

Reviewer 3: 💭 Is the external agent part really the case? It is possible, but it needs to be actively implemented when adding support for an external agent - to me it reads that Camunda does something automatically here.

Reviewer 2: It will be a case when https://github.com/camunda/product-hub/issues/3702 is implemented (8.10 scope).

> An agent definition is a structural descriptor (type, name, process definition key, and tenant), not a store of runtime configuration. The system prompt and model are FEEL expressions evaluated at instance creation time and are not stored in the definition.

Reviewer 3: 💭 Is the FEEL expression part relevant for these concepts here? It is how it is implemented by our AI Agent connectors, but doesn't have to be that way in an external agent. I could for example build an external agent, but hardcode the system prompt or model into the calls to the agent history API.

Author: In that case, I think it makes sense to leave that implementation detail out of the concept definition. @aleksander-dytko wdyt?

- [Agent definitions and instances](/components/agentic-orchestration/agent-definitions-and-instances.md)

### Agent instance

> A specific runtime execution of an [agent definition](#agent-definition), created when a process instance first activates the agent element. An agent instance is identified by an agent instance key and keeps its state, including the conversation and tool calls, in an agent context.

Reviewer: 🔧 I pointed out something about this wording in the handbook entry which included the same wording. Please have a look https://github.com/camunda/company-handbook/pull/1160#discussion_r3601458781

Author: Updated the wording to match your suggestion

> A specific runtime execution of an [agent definition](#agent-definition), created for an active agent element. Native agents get their instance automatically from the AI Agent connector; external agents create theirs directly through the Agent Instance API. An agent instance is identified by an agent instance key and keeps its state, including the conversation and tool calls, in an agent context.

Reviewer 4: > An agent instance is identified by an agent instance key and keeps its state, including the conversation and tool calls, in an agent context.

❓ Isn't the connector storing its state in the context, and responsible for updating/syncing information to an agent instance through the Agent Instance API? External agents could store their state completely differently. The agent instance in the engine stores its data in secondary storage, right?

Reviewer: >❓ Isn't the connector storing its state in the context, and responsible for updating/syncing information to an agent instance through the Agent Instance API? External agents could store their state completely differently. The agent instance in the engine stores its data in secondary storage, right?

- Camunda AI agents store it based on the chosen memory (in process, documents, custom)
- External AI agents store it how ever they do it
- Agent instance data is stored in secondary storage, but is only used for representation through our API (for visibility in what its doing and for explainability of what it did). This is not used for the runtime state.

Author: I’ve tried to clarify this in this commit: https://github.com/camunda/camunda-docs/pull/9402/changes/8aabd2a05b32b81dc6cf24609af269dff8178f85

Reviewer 3: @afgambin I think the content added in the linked commit is good, but I agree with @christoph-fricke here that the sentence with the agent context above is misleading. Maybe we just include the "agent instance is identified by its key" part? 🤔

Author: Updated the glossary as well. @aleksander-dytko Note that they’re referring to the agent instance definition established as the [source of truth in our handbook](https://github.com/camunda/company-handbook/pull/1160/changes). This PR was aligned with that definition, but we’re now deviating from it slightly. You may want to update the definition in the handbook as well.
